Hey everyone, welcome to part two of
the Web Scraping tutorial with Python.
So, in this second part,
what we're gonna do is
basically parse through the tables
object we made in the first video and
use the find all method in BeautifulSoup
to Grab the actual table contents.
To start off,
I'm going to set up an empty data list.
I'll make a list called data,
have it be empty, and then
I'm going to set rows as the first
indexed object in tables.
So, what I mean by that is I'm
gonna make an object called rows.
And then that's gonna be the first
index object in my tables object.
And then I'm gonna call findAll method.
And I'm gonna look for
every row in that tables.
And that index of zero is just
the way that BeautifulSoup
stores the information so
that's why you have to do that.
And now what I'm going to
do is I'm going to say for
every table row, or tr in rows,
I'm going to have the cols object or
columns = tr.findAll.
[SOUND] And find everything of an HTML
td tag, so that entry there.
So I'm gonna find every cell and
then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
check to see if text is in the row.
So I'm gonna say for
basically every cell in that
new cols object I made,
text will be equal to
>> That particular cell,
I'm gonna pass to method find(text=True).
And that's text.
Then, I'm going to print that text object.
And, finally,
I'll append it to my data list.
So, let's go ahead and break down,
one more time, what we're doing here.
We're gonna set up an empty data list.
Set rows as that first index object,
for every find all table row.
And then for every item in that
rows object, I'm going to set
cols as finding everywhere where
there's a td, or a table cell.
And then for every table cell in that cols
object, I'll check if there's text there.
And if there is, I'll print the text and
append that text to my data list.
All right, so go ahead and
check out the BeautifulSoup link
I posted in the notebook here.
If the findAll's a little confusing for
you.
But if you're familiar with HTML, then
this probably makes more or less sense.
And let's go ahead and
run it, see what happens.
Great.
So now you can see all the text
information that was in
that calls object that I made.
So let's go ahead see what
the data list we made looks like.
Okay, great.
So, now you can see that my data
list consists of that entry,
the date, and then that pdf file.
Awesome.
So continuing on, you'll notice
there's going to be some other so
for instance here i'm
high lighting \xa0 so
we're gonna have to deal with
that in the future a little bit.
We're gonna have to deal
with these new lines.
And also I want links to
have the pdf on them.
So I'm gonna have to find a way to get rid
of these other links that aren't even,
don't exist yet, and don't have the pdfs.
So continuing now, in order to do that,
to set up my panel's data frame, I'm gonna
use a for loop to go through the list and
grab only the cells
with a pf file in them.
And we'll also need to keep track of the
index to set up the date of the report.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and
set up empty lists.
So I'll set reports as an empty list.
I'll set up date as another empty list.
I'll set an object called index = 0.
And that's gonna be basically
almost like a counting object.
And now I'm gonna go through every item.
So for every item in
My data.
If pdf, if that string is in the item,
then I know that item has a,
basically I know that's
a report in my data.
So I'm gonna say date.append.
Index-1, and I'll break that down
while I'm doing that in a second.
And then I'm also gonna say
reports.append(item.replace.
And then I'm gonna do this to take
care of that non unicode stuff, and
I'll explain why in a second.
U space and then add one to the index.
So this is a bit of a complicated for
loop, so let's go ahead and break it down.
What am I actually doing here?
So I made my reports and date as
empty lists and I set my index = 0.
I know what my data list looks like.
It's got the entry number,
the date of the entry, and
then the pdf report that's attached to it.
It has that pattern.
It goes entry, date, pdf report, entry,
date, pdf report, and that continues on.
So I know that if I found
an entry that has a pdf,
one before it in the data list is
gonna be the date of that report.
So we'll keep that in mind, and
another thing to keep in mind
are these non unicode objects here and
that's what I was mentioning before.
We're probably gonna have
to clean up your data.
This is one way to do that.
So we're gonna have to do that.
So I'm saying for
every item in that data list.
If pdf is in that item, so for
instance, if I came across this item here,
Cogneration Energy Conservation.
Major Capital Projects pdf.
So if pdf is in that item,
append the item before
it using that index counter to the date.
So if I came across this Cogeneration and
Energy Conservation pdf file,
go ahead go back one.
Find that date, and
append it to my date list.
And then as far as the reports go,
append the item itself.
Now what's going on here
with the item.replace?
So back when I was running this on my own,
I was getting a lot of unicode errors.
Because of this \xa0.
So what I have to do was I'm gonna hop
over right to the IPython Notebook here.
So you'll notice the line I
take to take care of that \xa0.
So this is due to a unicode error
that occurs if you don't do that.
And like I was mentioning before,
webpages can be messy and inconsistent.
And it's pretty likely you're gonna have
to do some research how to take care of
problems like these.
So, I just looked it up on StackOverflow.
And usually someone's already had
similar problem to what you've had.
And I was about to look up the solution.
For removing \xa0 from a string.
And someone here posted the solution,
so I was able to solve that problem.
And you're probably gonna have to
do a similar thing when you're
doing your own Web Scraping.
Let's go ahead and see how this cell runs.
Great.
And now all that's left is to organize
our data into a pandas data frame.
So I'll set some series objects.
I'll set date = Series(date).
reports = Series(reports).
Now I"m going to concatenate both
of those series into a data frame.
And I'll call this legislative_df for
my data frame name.
Use the pd.concat method.
Put in the name of both those series And
then I'm gonna do it on the first axis.
So it's joined together just like
in the table on the website.
And now I just need to set up the columns
since it doesn't have any column names.
I'll say legislative_dfcolumns
= [ 'Date','Report'].
Now what I'm going to do,
is check the data frame we've made.
And there you have it now I have a data
frame that basically emulates this
table online from this web page except
it only has the entries of a pdf file.
Okay.
Great.
So what did we do here?
Let's just go over everything we just did.
I'll go hop back over to
the IPhyton notebook.
So we make sure we learned
stuff about Web Scraping.
Gave you some links to
learn a little more HTML.
Downloaded the modules we needed.
We used request to get
a connection to that url.
We used BeautifulSoup and
the find all method to find
exactly where that content was.
Find all the tables, then find the table
rows, then then the table cells.
We store that as a lists called data.
We looked at our lists.
We had to clean it up a bit to set
it up as the pandas DataFrame.
So we use this index counter method.
Grabbed only where the pdfs
were in the items and
then set up our date lists as well.
Then set up everything we needed
to create a pandas DataFrame.
And there you have it.
So another thing that I want
you guys to be aware of is,
there's some less intense options for
Web Scraping.
You can go ahead and check out these two
companies, import.io and kiminolabs.
These are basically
automatic Web Scraping,
or automatic API for any website.
So I encourage you to go ahead and
check out these links if you're
more interested in Web Scraping.
But basically what they do is they
instantly turn a web page into usable
data that you can access through an API.
Depending on how much use you want
from them, you may have to pay for it.
But, it's definitely a good starting
point if it's very tedious for
you to do the Web Scraping
on the particular website.
All right guys, thank you so
much for watching this appendix on
Web Scraping, and I hope you enjoyed it.
Thanks.